Q1:What is implicit & explicit type casting?
A: implicit casting: compiler understands the casting from 1 data type to the other.
explicit casting: programmer makes the forced casting
e.g: int b= (float) 3;

Q2:Why is Java a platform independent language? 
Q3:What do you understand by an instance variable and a local variable?
A : Instance variable : variable that is declared in a class but outside a method.
Local variable : variable declared within a method or a constructor.
Q4:What is the difference between JDK, JRE, and JVM?
Q5:What are the various access specifiers in Java?
A: public,private,default and protected.
Q6:What is difference between SQL and NoSQL Databases?
Q7:What is XML?
Ans: The Extensible Markup Language (XML) is a simple text-based format for representing structured information: documents, data, configuration, books, transactions, invoices, and much more.

Q8:Define Clustering in Machine Learning.
Ans:Clustering or cluster analysis is a machine learning technique, which groups the unlabelled dataset. It can be defined as "A way of grouping the data points into different clusters, consisting of similar data points.


Q9:What is Singleton Design Pattern?
A: Use the Singleton pattern when a class in your program should have just a single instance available to all clients; for example, a single database object shared by different parts of the program.
 The Singleton pattern disables all other means of creating objects of a class except for the special creation method.
Q10:What is Brust Time?

A:  Burst Time refers to the time required in milli seconds by a process for its execution. The Burst Time takes into consideration the CPU time of a process.
    The I/O time is not taken into consideration. It is called as the execution time or running time of the process.
Q11:What is Hadoop?

Ans: Apache Hadoop is a collection of open-source software utilities that facilitates using a network of many computers to solve problems involving massive amounts of data and computation. It provides a software framework for distributed storage and processing of big data using the MapReduce programming model.

Q12:Write a query to get all the Students from student tabel in oracle.

Q13:What is an ER diagram?

A: ER Diagram stands for Entity Relationship Diagram, also known as ERD is a diagram that displays the relationship of entity sets stored in a database. In other words, ER diagrams help to explain the logical structure of databases. ER diagrams are created based on three basic concepts: entities, attributes and relationships.

ER Diagrams contain different symbols that use rectangles to represent entities, ovals to define attributes and diamond shapes to represent relationships.

At first look, an ER diagram looks very similar to the flowchart. However, ER Diagram includes many specialized symbols, and its meanings make this model unique. The purpose of ER Diagram is to represent the entity framework infrastructure.

Q14:What is numpy?
A: NumPy is a library for the Python programming language, adding support for large, multi-dimensional arrays and matrices, along with a large collection of high-level mathematical functions to operate on these arrays
Q15:what is pandas?
A: pandas is a software library written for the Python programming language for data manipulation and analysis. In particular, it offers data structures and operations for manipulating numerical tables and time series
 
